content/backup-restore.rst, before:

Backup and Restore
==================

OTOBO has built-in scripts for backup and restore. Execute the scripts with ``-h`` option for more information.

Backup
------

.. note::

   To create a new backup, write permission is needed for ``otobo`` user for the destination directory.

.. code-block:: bash

   otobo> /opt/otobo/scripts/backup.pl -h

The output of the script:

.. code-block:: none

   Backup an OTOBO system.

   Usage:
    backup.pl -d /data_backup_dir [-c gzip|bzip2] [-r DAYS] [-t fullbackup|nofullbackup|dbonly]

   Options:
    -d                     - Directory where the backup files should place to.
    [-c]                   - Select the compression method (gzip|bzip2). Default: gzip.
    [-r DAYS]              - Remove backups which are more than x DAYS days old.
    [-t]                   - Specify which data will be saved (fullbackup|nofullbackup|dbonly). Default: full backup.
    [-h]                   - Display help for this command.

   Help:
   Using -t fullbackup saves the database and the whole OTOBO home directory (except /var/tmp and cache directories).
   Using -t nofullbackup saves only the database, /Kernel/Config* and /var directories.
   With -t dbonly only the database will be saved.

   Output:
    Config.tar.gz          - Backup of /Kernel/Config* configuration files.
    Application.tar.gz     - Backup of application file system (in case of full backup).
    VarDir.tar.gz          - Backup of /var directory (in case of no full backup).
    DataDir.tar.gz         - Backup of article files.
    DatabaseBackup.sql.gz  - Database dump.


Restore
-------

.. code-block:: bash

   otobo> /opt/otobo/scripts/restore.pl -h

The output of the script:

.. code-block:: none

   Restore an OTOBO system from backup.

   Usage:
    restore.pl -b /data_backup/<TIME>/ -d /opt/otobo/

   Options:
    -b                     - Directory of the backup files.
    -d                     - Target OTOBO home directory.
    [-h]                   - Display help for this command.

Commit message:

Issue RotherOSS/otobo#420: add note that the database must be empty

content/backup-restore.rst, after:

Backup and Restore
==================

OTOBO has built in scripts for backup and restore. Execute the scripts with the option ``-h`` for more information.

Backup
------

.. note::

   To create a new backup, write permission for the destination directory is needed for the user ``otobo``.

.. code-block:: bash

   otobo> /opt/otobo/scripts/backup.pl -h

The output of the script:

.. code-block:: none

   Backup an OTOBO system.

   Usage:
    backup.pl -d /data_backup_dir [-c gzip|bzip2] [-r DAYS] [-t fullbackup|nofullbackup|dbonly]

   Options:
    -d                     - Directory where the backup files should place to.
    [-c]                   - Select the compression method (gzip|bzip2). Default: gzip.
    [-r DAYS]              - Remove backups which are more than x DAYS days old.
    [-t]                   - Specify which data will be saved (fullbackup|nofullbackup|dbonly). Default: full backup.
    [-h]                   - Display help for this command.

   Help:
   Using -t fullbackup saves the database and the whole OTOBO home directory (except /var/tmp and cache directories).
   Using -t nofullbackup saves only the database, /Kernel/Config* and /var directories.
   With -t dbonly only the database will be saved.

   Output:
    Config.tar.gz          - Backup of /Kernel/Config* configuration files.
    Application.tar.gz     - Backup of application file system (in case of full backup).
    VarDir.tar.gz          - Backup of /var directory (in case of no full backup).
    DataDir.tar.gz         - Backup of article files.
    DatabaseBackup.sql.gz  - Database dump.


Restore
-------

.. note::

   To restore the database make sure that the database ``otobo`` exists and contains no tables.

.. code-block:: bash

   otobo> /opt/otobo/scripts/restore.pl -h

The output of the script:

.. code-block:: none

   Restore an OTOBO system from backup.

   Usage:
    restore.pl -b /data_backup/<TIME>/ -d /opt/otobo/

   Options:
    -b                     - Directory of the backup files.
    -d                     - Target OTOBO home directory.
    [-h]                   - Display help for this command.
