content/installation-docker.rst, before:

Installing using Docker and Docker Compose
==========================================

With the dockerized OTOBO deployment you can get your personal OTOBO instance up and running within minutes.
All of OTOBO´s dependencies are already included.

- MariaDB is set up as the default database.
- Elasticsearch is set up for the OTOBO power search.
- Redis is enabled for fast caching.
- Gazelle is used as fast Perl webserver.
- nginx is used as optional webproxy for HTTPS support.

.. warning::
    At the moment the docker-compose environment is not tested in depth for production use.
    Please use the standard installation process for production use, unless you know what you do.

We think that this will become the perfect environment for an OTOBO installation.

Requirements
------------

The minimal versions of required software, that have been tested, are listed here:

- Docker 19.03.08
- docker-compose 1.25.0
- Git 2.25.1

Example for installing git, docker, and docker-compose installation on Ubuntu 20.04:

.. code-block:: bash

   root> apt-get install git docker docker-compose
   root> systemctl enable docker

Please check the Git and the Docker documentation for instructions on further setup.

Installation
------------

The following instructions assume that the requirements are installed and that you have a working Docker environment.
We assume here that the user **root** is used for interacting with Docker. Please note that in a production environment a
dedicated user may be set up as Docker admin.

1. Clone the otobo-docker repo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
    The location of the cloned repisitory does not matter.
    For these instructions we chose */opt/otobo-docker* as the working dir.

.. code-block:: bash

   root> cd /opt
   root> git clone https://github.com/RotherOSS/otobo-docker.git
   root> cd otobo-docker

2. Create an initial *.env* file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The configuration file *.env* is the interface that allows to set up the installation of OTOBO.
*.env* is not created automatically, it must be created and edited by the user.

Two template files are available in the newly created folder *docker-compose*:

*.docker_compose_env_http*
    Provide HTTP via port 80.

*.docker_compose_env_https*
    Provide HTTPS via port 443.

Choose one of the files that suits your needs and rename it to *.env*.

.. note::
    Use ``ls -a`` for listing the hidden template files.

.. note::
    For productive environments we recommend the use of a web proxy.
    If you want to install your own web proxy for OTOBO, an extra docker nginx image is available for use.
    In this case, please rename the *.docker_compose_env_https* file to *.env*.

.. code-block:: bash

    root> cp -p .docker_compose_env_https .env


3. Configure the password for the database admin user
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Change the following value inside the *.env* file:

``OTOBO_DB_ROOT_PASSWORD``
The password for the database admin user may be chosen freely. The database admin user creates the database user **otobo**
and the database schema **otobo**.

4. Set up a volume with SSL configuration for the nginx webproxy (optional)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This step can be skipped when OTOBO should be available only via HTTP.

nginx needs for SSL encryption a certificate and a private key.

.. note::
    For testing and development a self-signed certificate can be used. In the general case
    registered certificates must be used.

.. note::
    To specify a CA chain with a certificate in nginx, it is necessary to copy the CA chain file
    with the actual certificate into a file.

The certificate and the private key are stored in a volume, so that they can be used by nginx later on.
In any case the volume needs to be generated manually, and we need to copy the certificate and key to the volume:

.. code-block:: bash

    root> docker volume create otobo_nginx_ssl
    root> cp /PathToYourSSLCert/ssl-cert.crt /PathToYourSSLCert/ssl-key.key $(docker volume inspect --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}' otobo_nginx_ssl)

The names of the copied files need to be set in our newly created *.env* file. E.g.

``OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE=/etc/nginx/ssl/ssl-cert.crt``
``OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE_KEY=/etc/nginx/ssl/ssl-key.key``

Please adapt only the name of the files as the path */etc/nginx/ssl/* is hard coded in the Docker image.

5. Start the docker-compose image
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now we start the Docker containers using ``docker-compose``. Per default the Docker images will be
fetched from https://hub.docker.com/u/rotheross.

.. code-block:: bash

    root> docker-compose up -d

To verify that the six, or five in the case of HTTP only, services are actually running type:

.. code-block:: bash

    root> docker-compose ps
    root> docker volume ls

6. Install and start OTOBO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Run the OTOBO installer at http://yourIPorFQDN/otobo/installer.pl.

.. note::
    Please configure OTOBO inside the installer with a new MySQL database.
    As MySQL database root password please use the password you configured
    in the variable ``OTOBO_DB_ROOT_PASSWORD`` of your *.env* file.
    Please leave the value ``db`` for the MySQL hostname untouched.

**Have fun with OTOBO!**

.. note::
    To change to the OTOBO directory, inside the running container, to work on command line as usual, you can use the following Docker command:
    ``docker exec -it otobo_web_1 bash``

Additional technical information
----------------------------------

This section gives some more technical insight into what is happing under the cover.

List of Docker containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Container otobo_web_1
    OTOBO webserver on internal port 5000.

Container otobo_daemon_1
    OTOBO daemon. The OTOBO daemon is started and periodically checked.

Container otobo_db_1
    Run the database MariaDB on internal port 3306.

Container otobo_elastic_1
    Elasticsearch on the internal ports 9200 and 9300.

Container otobo_redis_1
    Run Redis as caching service.

Optional container otobo_nginx_1
    Run nginx as reverse proxy for providing HTTPS support.

Overview over the Docker volumes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Docker volumes are created on the host for persistent data.
These allow starting and stopping the services without losing data. Keep in mind that
containers are temporary and only data in the volumes is permanent.

otobo_opt_otobo
    contains `/opt/otobo` on the container `web` and `daemon`.

otobo_mariadb_data
    contains `/var/lib/mysql` on the container `db`.

otobo_elasticsearch_data
    contains `/usr/share/elasticsearch/datal` on the container `elastic`.

otobo_redis_data
    contains data for the container `redis`.

otobo_nginx_ssl
    contains the TLS files, certificate and private key, must be initialized manually

Docker environment variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the instructions we did only minimal configuration. But the file *.env* allows to set
more variables. Here is a list of all supported environment variables.

**MariaDB settings**

``OTOBO_DB_ROOT_PASSWORD``
    The root password for MySQL. Must be set for running otobo db.

**Elasticsearch settings**

Elasticsearch needs some settings for productive environments. Please read
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.8/docker.html#docker-prod-prerequisites
for detailed information.

``OTOBO_Elasticsearch_ES_JAVA_OPTS``
    Example setting:
    *OTOBO_Elasticsearch_ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m*
    Please adjust this value for production env to a value up to 4g.

**Webserver settings**

``OTOBO_WEB_HTTP_PORT``
    Set in case the HTTP port should deviate from the standard port 80.
    When HTTPS is enabled then the HTTP port will redirect to HTTPS.

**nginx webproxy settings**

These setting are use when HTTPS is enabled.

``OTOBO_WEB_HTTP_PORT``
    Set in case the HTTP port should deviate from the standard port 80.
    Will redirect to HTTPS.

``OTOBO_WEB_HTTPS_PORT``
    Set in case the HTTPS port should deviate from the standard port 443.

``OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE``
    SSL cert for the nginx webproxy.
    Example: *OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE=/etc/nginx/ssl/acme.crt*

``OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE_KEY``
    SSL key for the nginx webproxy.
    Example: *OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE_KEY=/etc/nginx/ssl/acme.key*

**docker-compose settings**

These settings are used by docker-compose directly.

``COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME``
    The project name is used as a prefix for the generated volumes and containers.
    Must be set because the compose file is located in *scripts/docker-compose* and thus **docker-compose**
    would be used per default as the project name.

``COMPOSE_PATH_SEPARATOR``
    Separator for the value of COMPOSE_FILE

``COMPOSE_FILE``
    Use *docker-compose/otobo-base.yml* as the base and add the wanted extension files.
    E.g *docker-compose/otobo-override-http.yml* or *docker-compose/otobo-override-https.yml*.

``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO``, ``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO_ELASTICSEARCH``, ``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO_NGINX``
    Used for specifying alternative Docker images. Useful for testing local builds.

Advanced topics
----------------------------------

Building local images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The files needed for creating Docker images locally are part of the the git repository https://github.com/RotherOSS/otobo:

* *otobo.web.dockerfile*
* *otobo.nginx.dockerfile*
* *otobo.elasticsearch.dockerfile*
* *bin/docker/build_docker_images.sh*

.. code-block:: bash

   root> cd /opt
   root> git clone https://github.com/RotherOSS/otobo.git
   root> cd otobo
   root> bin/docker/build_docker_images.sh
   root> docker image ls

After building one can select the wanted image by setting
``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO``, ``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO_ELASTICSEARCH``, ``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO_NGINX`` in *.env*.

Automatic Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Instead of going through http://yourIPorFQDN/otobo/installer.pl, one can take a short cut. This is mostly useful for
running the test suite on a fresh installation.

.. warning::
    ``docker-compose down -v`` will eradicate all previous setup and data.

.. code-block:: bash

   root> docker-compose down -v
   root> docker-compose up -d
   root> docker stop otobo_daemon_1
   root> docker exec -t --user otobo otobo_web_1 bash\
   -c "rm -f Kernel/Config/Files/ZZZAAuto.pm ; bin/docker/quick_setup.pl --db-password otobo_root"
   root> docker exec -t --user otobo otobo_web_1 bash\
   -c "bin/docker/run_test_suite.sh"
   .......
   root>docker start otobo_daemon_1


Upgrading to a new patchlevel release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First make sure that in *.env* the images have the tag `latest` or the wanted version.

.. code-block:: bash

    # fetch the new images that are tagged a 'latest'
    docker_admin> docker-compose pull

    # stop and remove the containers, named volumes are kept
    docker_admin> docker-compose down

    # start again with the new images
    docker_admin> docker-compose up -d

Force an upgrade to or from a devel version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Images of devel versions are not upgraded automatically. But the upgrade can be forced.
The source of the devel version can either be a local build or an devel image from Docker Hub.
Here is a example using the devel image for the OTOBO 10.1.x branch from Docker Hub.

.. note::
    These coḿmands do not reinstall or upgrade the installed OTOBO packages.

.. code-block:: bash

    # stop and remove the containers, named volumes are kept
    docker_admin> docker-compose down

    # force upgrade, skip reinstall
    docker_admin> docker run -it --rm --volume otobo_opt_otobo:/opt/otobo rotheross/otobo:devel-rel-10_1 upgrade

    start again with the new version
    docker_admin> docker-compose up -d

List of useful commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**docker**

* ``docker system prune -a`` start over
* ``docker version`` show version
* ``docker build --tag otobo --file=otobo.web.Dockerfile .`` build an image
* ``docker run --publish 80:5000 otobo`` run the new image
* ``docker run -it -v opt_otobo:/opt/otobo otobo bash`` log into the new image
* ``docker run -it -v opt_otobo:/opt/otobo --entrypoint bash otobo`` with broke entrypoint
* ``docker ps`` show running images
* ``docker images`` show available images
* ``docker volume ls`` list volumes
* ``docker volume inspect otobo_opt_otobo`` inspect a volume
* ``docker volume inspect --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}' otobo_nginx_ssl`` get volume mountpoint
* ``docker inspect <container>`` inspect a container
* ``docker save --output otobo.tar otobo:latest && tar -tvf otobo.tar`` list files in an image

**docker-compose**

* ``docker-compose config`` check config
* ``docker-compose ps`` check containers

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

* `Perl Maven <https://perlmaven.com/getting-started-with-perl-on-docker>`_
* `Docker Compose quick start <http://mfg.fhstp.ac.at/development/webdevelopment/docker-compose-ein-quick-start-guide/>`_
* `docker-otrs <https://github.com/juanluisbaptiste/docker-otrs/>`_
* `not403 <http://not403.blogspot.com/search/label/otrs>`_
* `cleanup <https://forums.docker.com/t/command-to-remove-all-unused-images>`_
* `Dockerfile best practices <https://www.docker.com/blog/intro-guide-to-dockerfile-best-practices/>`_
* `Docker cache invalidation <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34814669/when-does-docker-image-cache-invalidation-occur>`_
* `Docker Host IP <https://nickjanetakis.com/blog/docker-tip-65-get-your-docker-hosts-ip-address-from-in-a-container>`_
* `Environment <https://vsupalov.com/docker-arg-env-variable-guide/>`_
* `Self signed certificate <https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-self-signed-ssl-certificate-for-nginx-in-ubuntu-18-04>`_
* `Inspect failed builds <https://pythonspeed.com/articles/debugging-docker-build/>`_

Commit message:

Issue #11: mention the tag of locally built images.

content/installation-docker.rst, after:

Installing using Docker and Docker Compose
==========================================

With the dockerized OTOBO deployment you can get your personal OTOBO instance up and running within minutes.
All of OTOBO´s dependencies are already included.

- MariaDB is set up as the default database.
- Elasticsearch is set up for the OTOBO power search.
- Redis is enabled for fast caching.
- Gazelle is used as fast Perl webserver.
- nginx is used as optional webproxy for HTTPS support.

.. warning::
    At the moment the docker-compose environment is not tested in depth for production use.
    Please use the standard installation process for production use, unless you know what you do.

We think that this will become the perfect environment for an OTOBO installation.

Requirements
------------

The minimal versions of required software, that have been tested, are listed here:

- Docker 19.03.08
- docker-compose 1.25.0
- Git 2.25.1

Example for installing git, docker, and docker-compose installation on Ubuntu 20.04:

.. code-block:: bash

   root> apt-get install git docker docker-compose
   root> systemctl enable docker

Please check the Git and the Docker documentation for instructions on further setup.

Installation
------------

The following instructions assume that the requirements are installed and that you have a working Docker environment.
We assume here that the user **root** is used for interacting with Docker. Please note that in a production environment a
dedicated user may be set up as Docker admin.

1. Clone the otobo-docker repo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
    The location of the cloned repisitory does not matter.
    For these instructions we chose */opt/otobo-docker* as the working dir.

.. code-block:: bash

   root> cd /opt
   root> git clone https://github.com/RotherOSS/otobo-docker.git
   root> cd otobo-docker

2. Create an initial *.env* file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The configuration file *.env* is the interface that allows to set up the installation of OTOBO.
*.env* is not created automatically, it must be created and edited by the user.

Two template files are available in the newly created folder *docker-compose*:

*.docker_compose_env_http*
    Provide HTTP via port 80.

*.docker_compose_env_https*
    Provide HTTPS via port 443.

Choose one of the files that suits your needs and rename it to *.env*.

.. note::
    Use ``ls -a`` for listing the hidden template files.

.. note::
    For productive environments we recommend the use of a web proxy.
    If you want to install your own web proxy for OTOBO, an extra docker nginx image is available for use.
    In this case, please rename the *.docker_compose_env_https* file to *.env*.

.. code-block:: bash

    root> cp -p .docker_compose_env_https .env


3. Configure the password for the database admin user
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Change the following value inside the *.env* file:

``OTOBO_DB_ROOT_PASSWORD``
The password for the database admin user may be chosen freely. The database admin user creates the database user **otobo**
and the database schema **otobo**.

4. Set up a volume with SSL configuration for the nginx webproxy (optional)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This step can be skipped when OTOBO should be available only via HTTP.

nginx needs for SSL encryption a certificate and a private key.

.. note::
    For testing and development a self-signed certificate can be used. In the general case
    registered certificates must be used.

.. note::
    To specify a CA chain with a certificate in nginx, it is necessary to copy the CA chain file
    with the actual certificate into a file.

The certificate and the private key are stored in a volume, so that they can be used by nginx later on.
In any case the volume needs to be generated manually, and we need to copy the certificate and key to the volume:

.. code-block:: bash

    root> docker volume create otobo_nginx_ssl
    root> cp /PathToYourSSLCert/ssl-cert.crt /PathToYourSSLCert/ssl-key.key $(docker volume inspect --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}' otobo_nginx_ssl)

The names of the copied files need to be set in our newly created *.env* file. E.g.

``OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE=/etc/nginx/ssl/ssl-cert.crt``
``OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE_KEY=/etc/nginx/ssl/ssl-key.key``

Please adapt only the name of the files as the path */etc/nginx/ssl/* is hard coded in the Docker image.

5. Start the docker-compose image
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now we start the Docker containers using ``docker-compose``. Per default the Docker images will be
fetched from https://hub.docker.com/u/rotheross.

.. code-block:: bash

    root> docker-compose up -d

To verify that the six, or five in the case of HTTP only, services are actually running type:

.. code-block:: bash

    root> docker-compose ps
    root> docker volume ls

6. Install and start OTOBO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Run the OTOBO installer at http://yourIPorFQDN/otobo/installer.pl.

.. note::
    Please configure OTOBO inside the installer with a new MySQL database.
    As MySQL database root password please use the password you configured
    in the variable ``OTOBO_DB_ROOT_PASSWORD`` of your *.env* file.
    Please leave the value ``db`` for the MySQL hostname untouched.

**Have fun with OTOBO!**

.. note::
    To change to the OTOBO directory, inside the running container, to work on command line as usual, you can use the following Docker command:
    ``docker exec -it otobo_web_1 bash``

Additional technical information
----------------------------------

This section gives some more technical insight into what is happing under the cover.

List of Docker containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Container otobo_web_1
    OTOBO webserver on internal port 5000.

Container otobo_daemon_1
    OTOBO daemon. The OTOBO daemon is started and periodically checked.

Container otobo_db_1
    Run the database MariaDB on internal port 3306.

Container otobo_elastic_1
    Elasticsearch on the internal ports 9200 and 9300.

Container otobo_redis_1
    Run Redis as caching service.

Optional container otobo_nginx_1
    Run nginx as reverse proxy for providing HTTPS support.

Overview over the Docker volumes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Docker volumes are created on the host for persistent data.
These allow starting and stopping the services without losing data. Keep in mind that
containers are temporary and only data in the volumes is permanent.

otobo_opt_otobo
    contains `/opt/otobo` on the container `web` and `daemon`.

otobo_mariadb_data
    contains `/var/lib/mysql` on the container `db`.

otobo_elasticsearch_data
    contains `/usr/share/elasticsearch/datal` on the container `elastic`.

otobo_redis_data
    contains data for the container `redis`.

otobo_nginx_ssl
    contains the TLS files, certificate and private key, must be initialized manually

Docker environment variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the instructions we did only minimal configuration. But the file *.env* allows to set
more variables. Here is a list of all supported environment variables.

**MariaDB settings**

``OTOBO_DB_ROOT_PASSWORD``
    The root password for MySQL. Must be set for running otobo db.

**Elasticsearch settings**

Elasticsearch needs some settings for productive environments. Please read
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.8/docker.html#docker-prod-prerequisites
for detailed information.

``OTOBO_Elasticsearch_ES_JAVA_OPTS``
    Example setting:
    *OTOBO_Elasticsearch_ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m*
    Please adjust this value for production env to a value up to 4g.

**Webserver settings**

``OTOBO_WEB_HTTP_PORT``
    Set in case the HTTP port should deviate from the standard port 80.
    When HTTPS is enabled then the HTTP port will redirect to HTTPS.

**nginx webproxy settings**

These setting are use when HTTPS is enabled.

``OTOBO_WEB_HTTP_PORT``
    Set in case the HTTP port should deviate from the standard port 80.
    Will redirect to HTTPS.

``OTOBO_WEB_HTTPS_PORT``
    Set in case the HTTPS port should deviate from the standard port 443.

``OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE``
    SSL cert for the nginx webproxy.
    Example: *OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE=/etc/nginx/ssl/acme.crt*

``OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE_KEY``
    SSL key for the nginx webproxy.
    Example: *OTOBO_NGINX_SSL_CERTIFICATE_KEY=/etc/nginx/ssl/acme.key*

**docker-compose settings**

These settings are used by docker-compose directly.

``COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME``
    The project name is used as a prefix for the generated volumes and containers.
    Must be set because the compose file is located in *scripts/docker-compose* and thus **docker-compose**
    would be used per default as the project name.

``COMPOSE_PATH_SEPARATOR``
    Separator for the value of COMPOSE_FILE

``COMPOSE_FILE``
    Use *docker-compose/otobo-base.yml* as the base and add the wanted extension files.
    E.g *docker-compose/otobo-override-http.yml* or *docker-compose/otobo-override-https.yml*.

``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO``, ``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO_ELASTICSEARCH``, ``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO_NGINX``
    Used for specifying alternative Docker images. Useful for testing local builds.

Advanced topics
----------------------------------

Building local images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The files needed for creating Docker images locally are part of the the git repository https://github.com/RotherOSS/otobo:

* *otobo.web.dockerfile*
* *otobo.nginx.dockerfile*
* *otobo.elasticsearch.dockerfile*
* *bin/docker/build_docker_images.sh*

.. code-block:: bash

   root> cd /opt
   root> git clone https://github.com/RotherOSS/otobo.git
   root> cd otobo
   root> bin/docker/build_docker_images.sh
   root> docker image ls

The locally built images are tagged as ``local-<OTOOB_VERSION>`` using the version set up the file *RELEASE*.
After building one can select the wanted image by setting
``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO``, ``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO_ELASTICSEARCH``, ``OTOBO_IMAGE_OTOBO_NGINX`` in *.env*.

Automatic Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Instead of going through http://yourIPorFQDN/otobo/installer.pl, one can take a short cut. This is mostly useful for
running the test suite on a fresh installation.

.. warning::
    ``docker-compose down -v`` will eradicate all previous setup and data.

.. code-block:: bash

   root> docker-compose down -v
   root> docker-compose up -d
   root> docker stop otobo_daemon_1
   root> docker exec -t --user otobo otobo_web_1 bash\
   -c "rm -f Kernel/Config/Files/ZZZAAuto.pm ; bin/docker/quick_setup.pl --db-password otobo_root"
   root> docker exec -t --user otobo otobo_web_1 bash\
   -c "bin/docker/run_test_suite.sh"
   .......
   root>docker start otobo_daemon_1


Upgrading to a new patchlevel release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First make sure that in *.env* the images have the tag `latest` or the wanted version.

.. code-block:: bash

    # fetch the new images that are tagged a 'latest'
    docker_admin> docker-compose pull

    # stop and remove the containers, named volumes are kept
    docker_admin> docker-compose down

    # start again with the new images
    docker_admin> docker-compose up -d

Force an upgrade to or from a devel version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Images of devel versions are not upgraded automatically. But the upgrade can be forced.
The source of the devel version can either be a local build or an devel image from Docker Hub.
Here is a example using the devel image for the OTOBO 10.1.x branch from Docker Hub.

.. note::
    These coḿmands do not reinstall or upgrade the installed OTOBO packages.

.. code-block:: bash

    # stop and remove the containers, named volumes are kept
    docker_admin> docker-compose down

    # force upgrade, skip reinstall
    docker_admin> docker run -it --rm --volume otobo_opt_otobo:/opt/otobo rotheross/otobo:devel-rel-10_1 upgrade

    start again with the new version
    docker_admin> docker-compose up -d

List of useful commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**docker**

* ``docker system prune -a`` start over
* ``docker version`` show version
* ``docker build --tag otobo --file=otobo.web.Dockerfile .`` build an image
* ``docker run --publish 80:5000 otobo`` run the new image
* ``docker run -it -v opt_otobo:/opt/otobo otobo bash`` log into the new image
* ``docker run -it -v opt_otobo:/opt/otobo --entrypoint bash otobo`` with broke entrypoint
* ``docker ps`` show running images
* ``docker images`` show available images
* ``docker volume ls`` list volumes
* ``docker volume inspect otobo_opt_otobo`` inspect a volume
* ``docker volume inspect --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}' otobo_nginx_ssl`` get volume mountpoint
* ``docker inspect <container>`` inspect a container
* ``docker save --output otobo.tar otobo:latest && tar -tvf otobo.tar`` list files in an image

**docker-compose**

* ``docker-compose config`` check config
* ``docker-compose ps`` check containers

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

* `Perl Maven <https://perlmaven.com/getting-started-with-perl-on-docker>`_
* `Docker Compose quick start <http://mfg.fhstp.ac.at/development/webdevelopment/docker-compose-ein-quick-start-guide/>`_
* `docker-otrs <https://github.com/juanluisbaptiste/docker-otrs/>`_
* `not403 <http://not403.blogspot.com/search/label/otrs>`_
* `cleanup <https://forums.docker.com/t/command-to-remove-all-unused-images>`_
* `Dockerfile best practices <https://www.docker.com/blog/intro-guide-to-dockerfile-best-practices/>`_
* `Docker cache invalidation <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34814669/when-does-docker-image-cache-invalidation-occur>`_
* `Docker Host IP <https://nickjanetakis.com/blog/docker-tip-65-get-your-docker-hosts-ip-address-from-in-a-container>`_
* `Environment <https://vsupalov.com/docker-arg-env-variable-guide/>`_
* `Self signed certificate <https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-self-signed-ssl-certificate-for-nginx-in-ubuntu-18-04>`_
* `Inspect failed builds <https://pythonspeed.com/articles/debugging-docker-build/>`_
