content/migration-from-otrs-6.rst, before:

Migration from OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition version 6 to OTOBO version 10
==================================================================================

Welcome and thank you for choosing OTOBO!

OTRS, ((OTRS)) Community Edition and OTOBO are very comprehensive and flexible in their application. Thus, every migration to OTOBO requires thorough preparation and possibly some rework, too.

Please take your time for the migration and follow these instructions step by step.

If you have any problem or question, please do not give up :) Call our support line, write an email, or post your query
in the OTOBO Community forum at https://forum.otobo.org/.

We will find a way to help you.

.. note::

    After the migration all data previously available in OTRS 6 will be available in OTOBO.
    We do not modify any OTRS data during the migration.

Migration Possibilities
------------------------

With the OTOBO Migration Interface it is possible to perform the following migrations:

1. A 1:1 migration on the same application server with the same database server.

    For MySQL there is also a script for optimised database migration.

2. A migration and simultaneous move to a new application server and operating system.

3. It is irrelevant whether your OTRS/ ((OTRS)) Community Edition was previously installed on two separate servers (application and database servers), or whether you want to change OTOBO to such a configuration.

4. It is possible to migrate from any of the supported databases to any other one.

5. It is possible to switch from any supported operating system to any other supported operating system during the migration.

6. It is possible to migrate to a Docker based installation of OTOBO 10.

    .. note::
        In the sample commands we assume that the user **docker_admin** is used for interacting with Docker.
        The Docker admin may be either the **root** user of the Docker host or a dedicated user with the required permissions.


Migration Requirements
----------------------

1. Basic requirement for a migration is that you already have an ((OTRS)) Community Edition or OTRS 6.0.\* running,
and that you want to transfer configuration and data to OTOBO.

.. warning::

    Please consider carefully whether you really need the data and configuration.
    Experience shows that quite often a new start is the better option, as the previously used installation and configuration was rather suboptimal anyway.
    It might also make sense to only transfer the ticket data and to change the basic configuration to OTOBO Best Practice.
    We are happy to advise you, please get in touch at hello@otobo.de or ask your question in the OTOBO Community forum at https://forum.otobo.org/.

2. You need a running OTOBO installation to start the migration from there!

3. This OTOBO installation must contain all OPM packages installed in your OTRS that you want to use in OTOBO, too.

4. If you are planning to migrate to another server, then the OTOBO webserver must be able
to access the location where your ((OTRS)) Community Edition or OTRS 6.0.* is installed. In most cases, this is the directory /opt/otrs
on the server running OTRS. The access can be effected via SSH or via file system mounts.
Furthermore, the *otrs* database must be accessible from the server running OTOBO. Readonly access must be granted for external hosts.

.. note::

    If SSH and database access between the servers is not possible, please migrate OTRS to OTOBO on the same server and only then move the new installation.

Step 1: Install the new OTOBO System
------------------------------------

Please start with installing the new OTOBO system to which your OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition instance will then be migrated.
We strongly recommend to read the :doc:`installation` chapter.

.. warning::

    Apache has difficulties with running two independent applications under mod_perl on the same server.
    Therefore, if you installed OTOBO on the same server as your OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition,
    disable mod_perl for OTOBO as long as both systems are running.
    To disable mod_perl for OTOBO, simply comment out the mod_perl part in the file */opt/otobo/scripts/apache2-httpd.include.conf*.
    Alternatively, you can deactivate OTRS in the web server before migration.

After finishing the installation tutorial, please login to the OTOBO Admin Area ``Admin -> Packages``
to install all required OTOBO OPM packages.

The following OPM packages and OTRS "Feature Addons" need NOT and should NOT be installed, as these features are already available in the OTOBO standard:
    - OTRSHideShowDynamicField
    - RotherOSSHideShowDynamicField
    - TicketForms
    - RotherOSS-LongEscalationPerformanceBoost
    - Znuny4OTRS-AdvancedDynamicFields
    - Znuny4OTRS-AutoSelect
    - Znuny4OTRS-EscalationSuspend
    - OTRSEscalationSuspend
    - OTRSDynamicFieldAttachment
    - OTRSDynamicFieldDatabase
    - OTRSDynamicFieldWebService
    - OTRSBruteForceAttackProtection
    - Znuny4OTRS-ExternalURLJump
    - Znuny4OTRS-QuickClose
    - Znuny4OTRS-AutoCheckbox
    - OTRSSystemConfigurationHistory


Step 2: Preparing the new OTOBO system and server
-------------------------------------------------------

After installing OTOBO, please log in again to the OTOBO Admin Area ``Admin -> System Configuration`` and deactivate the config option ``SecureMode``.
Now log in on the server as user ``root`` and execute the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    root> su - otobo
    otobo>
    otobo> /opt/otobo/bin/Cron.sh stop
    otobo> /opt/otobo/bin/otobo.Daemon stop --force

When OTOBO is running in Docker, you just need to stop the Docker container ``otobo_daemon_1``:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker_admin> cd /opt/otobo-docker
    docker_admin> docker-compose stop daemon
    docker_admin> docker-compose ps     # otobo_daemon_1 should have exited with the code 0

.. note::

   It is recommended to run a backup of the whole OTOBO system at this point. If something goes wrong during migration, you will then not have to
   repeat the entire installation process, but can instead import the backup for a new migration.

   .. seealso::

      We advise you to read the OTOBO :doc:`backup-restore` chapter.


Install sshpass and rsysnc if you want to migrate OTRS from another server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The tools ``sshpass`` and ``rsync`` are needed so we can copy files via ssh. For installing ``sshpass``, please log in on the server as user ``root``
and execute one of the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ # Install sshpass under Debian / Ubuntu Linux
    $ sudo apt-get install sshpass

.. code-block:: bash

    $ #Install sshpass under RHEL/CentOS Linux
    $ sudo yum install sshpass

.. code-block:: bash

    $ # Install sshpass under Fedora
    $ sudo dnf install sshpass

.. code-block:: bash

    $ # Install sshpass under OpenSUSE Linux
    $ sudo zypper install sshpass

The same thing must be done for *rsync* when it isn't available yet.

Step 3 non-Docker: Preparing the OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition system
-------------------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

See the next section for migration to a Docker-based installation

.. note::

    Be sure to have a valid backup of your OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition system, too. Yes, we do not touch any OTRS data during the migration, but at times
    a wrong entry is enough to cause trouble.


Now we are ready for the migration. First of all we need to make sure that no more tickets are processed and
no users log on to OTRS:

Please login to the OTOBO Admin Area ``Admin ->  System Maintenance`` and add a new system maintenance slot for a few hours.
After that, delete all agent and user sessions (``Admin ->  Sessions``) and logout yourself.

Stop All Relevant Services and the OTRS Daemon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please make sure there are no running services or cron jobs.

.. code-block:: bash

    root> su - otrs
    otrs>
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/Cron.sh stop
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Daemon.pl stop --force
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Console.pl Maint::Cache::Delete
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Console.pl Maint::Session::DeleteAll
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Console.pl Maint::Loader::CacheCleanup
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Console.pl Maint::WebUploadCache::Cleanup


Step 3 Docker: provide data for migration
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Docker: copy */opt/otrs* into the volume *otobo_opt_otobo*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this section, we assume that */opt/otrs* is available on the Docker host.

In the case when the web application OTOBO runs inside the container ``otobo_web_1``, OTOBO generally cannot access directories outside the container.
There is an exception though: directories mounted as volumes into the container can be accessed. This means that for
migration there are two possibilities:

    a. copy */opt/otrs* into an existing volume
    b. mount */opt/otrs* as an additional volume

Let's concentrate on option **a.** here.

For safe copying, we use ``rsync``. But first we need to find out the correct target.

.. code-block:: bash

    docker_admin> mountpoint_opt_otobo=$(docker volume inspect --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}' otobo_opt_otobo)
    docker_admin> echo $mountpoint_opt_otobo  # just a sanity check

Depending on your Docker setup the ``rsync`` might need to run with ``sudo``.
.. code-block:: bash

    docker_admin> rsync --recursive --safe-links --owner --group --chown 1000:1000 --perms --chmod "a-wx,Fu+r,Du+rx" /opt/otrs/ $mountpoint_opt_otobo/tmp/opt/otrs
    docker_admin> # if docker_admin is not root
    docker_admin> sudo rsync --recursive --safe-links --owner --group --chown 1000:1000 --perms --chmod "a-wx,Fu+r,Du+rx" /opt/otrs/ $mountpoint_opt_otobo/tmp/opt/otrs

This copied directory will be available as */opt/otobo/tmp/otrs* within the container.

Docker: copy the otrs database schema into otobo_db_1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Currently only for MySQL.

Step 4: Perform the Migration!
---------------------------------

TODO: call the new script

Please use the web migration tool at http://localhost/otobo/migration.pl (replace "localhost" with your OTOBO hostname)
and follow the process.

.. note::

    If OTOBO runs inside a Docker container, specify *localhost* for OTRS server and */opt/otobo/tmp/otrs* as the OTRS home directory.

.. note::

    In the Docker case, a local database won't be reachable via ``127.0.0.1`` from within the Docker container.
    Pick one of the IP-addresses reported by ``hostname --all-ip-addresses`` instead for ``OTRS Server``.
    In order to make sure that there is a database user who can read the data, it might be worthwhile to create a dedicated user.
    E.g. ``CREATE USER 'otrs_migration'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'otrs_migration'`` and
    ``GRANT SELECT, SHOW VIEW ON otrs.* TO 'otrs_migration'@'%'``.



When the migration is complete, please take your time and test the entire system. Once you have decided
that the migration was successful and that you want to use OTOBO from now on, start the OTOBO Daemon:

.. code-block:: bash

    root> su - otobo
    otobo>
    otobo> /opt/otobo/bin/Cron.sh start
    otobo> /opt/otobo/bin/otobo.Daemon start

In the Docker case:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker_admin> cd ~/otobo-docker
    docker_admin> docker-compose start daemon

Step 5: After Successful Migration!
------------------------------------

1. Uninstall ``sshpass`` if you do not need it anymore.
2. Drop the databases user dedicated to the migration if you created one.
3. Have fun with OTOBO!


Step 6: Known Migration Problems
-----------------------------------

1. Login after migration not possible
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

During our migration tests, the browser used for the migration sometimes had problems.
After restarting the browser, this problem usually was solved. With Safari it was sometimes necessary to manually delete the old OTRS session.

2. Final page of the migration has strange layout due to missing CSS files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This can happen when the setting ScriptAlias has a non-standard value. The migration simple substitutes otrs for otobo. This might lead to
the effect that the CSS and JavaScript can no longer be retrieved in OTOBO.
When that happens, please check the settings in Kernel/Config.pm and revert them to sane values.

Step 7: Manual Migration Tasks and Changes
------------------------------------------

With OTOBO 10 a new default password policy for agent and customer users is in effect, if local authentication is used. The password policy rules can be changed in the system configuration (``PreferencesGroups###Password`` and ``CustomerPersonalPreference###Password``).

+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| Password Policy Rule                  | Default      |
+=======================================+==============+
| ``PasswordMinSize``                   | 8            |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordMin2Lower2UpperCharacters`` | Yes          |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordNeedDigit``                 | Yes          |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordHistory``                   | 10           |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordTTL``                       | 30 days      |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordWarnBeforeExpiry``          | 5 days       |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordChangeAfterFirstLogin``     | Yes          |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+

Commit message:

Issue rotheross/otobo#534: try to make the doc more understandable

content/migration-from-otrs-6.rst, after:

Migration from OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition version 6 to OTOBO version 10
==================================================================================

Welcome and thank you for choosing OTOBO!

OTRS, ((OTRS)) Community Edition and OTOBO are very comprehensive and flexible in their application. Thus, every migration to OTOBO requires thorough preparation and possibly some rework, too.

Please take your time for the migration and follow these instructions step by step.

If you have any problem or question, please do not give up :) Call our support line, write an email, or post your query
in the OTOBO Community forum at https://forum.otobo.org/.

We will find a way to help you.

.. note::

    After the migration all data previously available in OTRS 6 will be available in OTOBO.
    We do not modify any OTRS data during the migration.

Migration Possibilities
------------------------

With the OTOBO Migration Interface it is possible to perform the following migrations:

1. A 1:1 migration on the same application server with the same database server.

    For MySQL there is also a script for optimised database migration.

2. A migration and simultaneous move to a new application server and operating system.

3. It is irrelevant whether your OTRS/ ((OTRS)) Community Edition was previously installed on two separate servers (application and database servers), or whether you want to change OTOBO to such a configuration.

4. It is possible to migrate from any of the supported databases to any other one.

5. It is possible to switch from any supported operating system to any other supported operating system during the migration.

6. It is possible to migrate to a Docker based installation of OTOBO 10.

    .. note::
        In the sample commands we assume that the user **docker_admin** is used for interacting with Docker.
        The Docker admin may be either the **root** user of the Docker host or a dedicated user with the required permissions.


Migration Requirements
----------------------

1. Basic requirement for a migration is that you already have an ((OTRS)) Community Edition or OTRS 6.0.\* running,
and that you want to transfer configuration and data to OTOBO.

.. warning::

    Please consider carefully whether you really need the data and configuration.
    Experience shows that quite often a new start is the better option, as the previously used installation and configuration was rather suboptimal anyway.
    It might also make sense to only transfer the ticket data and to change the basic configuration to OTOBO Best Practice.
    We are happy to advise you, please get in touch at hello@otobo.de or ask your question in the OTOBO Community forum at https://forum.otobo.org/.

2. You need a running OTOBO installation to start the migration from there!

3. This OTOBO installation must contain all OPM packages installed in your OTRS that you want to use in OTOBO, too.

4. If you are planning to migrate to another server, then the OTOBO webserver must be able
to access the location where your ((OTRS)) Community Edition or OTRS 6.0.* is installed. In most cases, this is the directory /opt/otrs
on the server running OTRS. The access can be effected via SSH or via file system mounts.
Furthermore, the *otrs* database must be accessible from the server running OTOBO. Readonly access must be granted for external hosts.

.. note::

    If SSH and database access between the servers is not possible, please migrate OTRS to OTOBO on the same server and only then move the new installation.

Step 1: Install the new OTOBO System
------------------------------------

Please start with installing the new OTOBO system to which your OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition instance will then be migrated.
We strongly recommend to read the :doc:`installation` chapter.

.. warning::

    Apache has difficulties with running two independent applications under mod_perl on the same server.
    Therefore, if you installed OTOBO on the same server as your OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition,
    disable mod_perl for OTOBO as long as both systems are running.
    To disable mod_perl for OTOBO, simply comment out the mod_perl part in the file */opt/otobo/scripts/apache2-httpd.include.conf*.
    Alternatively, you can deactivate OTRS in the web server before migration.

After finishing the installation tutorial, please login to the OTOBO Admin Area ``Admin -> Packages``
to install all required OTOBO OPM packages.

The following OPM packages and OTRS "Feature Addons" need NOT and should NOT be installed, as these features are already available in the OTOBO standard:
    - OTRSHideShowDynamicField
    - RotherOSSHideShowDynamicField
    - TicketForms
    - RotherOSS-LongEscalationPerformanceBoost
    - Znuny4OTRS-AdvancedDynamicFields
    - Znuny4OTRS-AutoSelect
    - Znuny4OTRS-EscalationSuspend
    - OTRSEscalationSuspend
    - OTRSDynamicFieldAttachment
    - OTRSDynamicFieldDatabase
    - OTRSDynamicFieldWebService
    - OTRSBruteForceAttackProtection
    - Znuny4OTRS-ExternalURLJump
    - Znuny4OTRS-QuickClose
    - Znuny4OTRS-AutoCheckbox
    - OTRSSystemConfigurationHistory


Step 2: Preparing the new OTOBO system and server
-------------------------------------------------------

After installing OTOBO, please log in again to the OTOBO Admin Area ``Admin -> System Configuration`` and deactivate the config option ``SecureMode``.
Now log in on the server as user ``root`` and execute the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    root> su - otobo
    otobo>
    otobo> /opt/otobo/bin/Cron.sh stop
    otobo> /opt/otobo/bin/otobo.Daemon stop --force

When OTOBO is running in Docker, you just need to stop the Docker container ``otobo_daemon_1``:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker_admin> cd /opt/otobo-docker
    docker_admin> docker-compose stop daemon
    docker_admin> docker-compose ps     # otobo_daemon_1 should have exited with the code 0

.. note::

   It is recommended to run a backup of the whole OTOBO system at this point. If something goes wrong during migration, you will then not have to
   repeat the entire installation process, but can instead import the backup for a new migration.

   .. seealso::

      We advise you to read the OTOBO :doc:`backup-restore` chapter.


Install sshpass and rsysnc if you want to migrate OTRS from another server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The tools ``sshpass`` and ``rsync`` are needed so we can copy files via ssh. For installing ``sshpass``, please log in on the server as user ``root``
and execute one of the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ # Install sshpass under Debian / Ubuntu Linux
    $ sudo apt-get install sshpass

.. code-block:: bash

    $ #Install sshpass under RHEL/CentOS Linux
    $ sudo yum install sshpass

.. code-block:: bash

    $ # Install sshpass under Fedora
    $ sudo dnf install sshpass

.. code-block:: bash

    $ # Install sshpass under OpenSUSE Linux
    $ sudo zypper install sshpass

The same thing must be done for *rsync* when it isn't available yet.

Step 3 non-Docker: Preparing the OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition system
-------------------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

See the next section for migration to a Docker-based installation

.. note::

    Be sure to have a valid backup of your OTRS / ((OTRS)) Community Edition system, too. Yes, we do not touch any OTRS data during the migration, but at times
    a wrong entry is enough to cause trouble.


Now we are ready for the migration. First of all we need to make sure that no more tickets are processed and
no users log on to OTRS:

Please login to the OTOBO Admin Area ``Admin ->  System Maintenance`` and add a new system maintenance slot for a few hours.
After that, delete all agent and user sessions (``Admin ->  Sessions``) and logout yourself.

Stop All Relevant Services and the OTRS Daemon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please make sure there are no running services or cron jobs.

.. code-block:: bash

    root> su - otrs
    otrs>
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/Cron.sh stop
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Daemon.pl stop --force
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Console.pl Maint::Cache::Delete
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Console.pl Maint::Session::DeleteAll
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Console.pl Maint::Loader::CacheCleanup
    otrs> /opt/otrs/bin/otrs.Console.pl Maint::WebUploadCache::Cleanup


Step 3 Docker: provide data for migration
-------------------------------------------------------------------

When the targeted OTOBO installation runs under Docker some specifities have to be considered.
The most relevant effect is that processes running in a Docker container generally cannot access directories
outside the container.  There is an exception though: directories mounted as volumes into the container can be accessed.

Docker: copy */opt/otrs* into the volume *otobo_opt_otobo*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this section, we assume that the OTRS home directory */opt/otrs* is available
on the Docker host.

In the Docker case there are at least two possibilities:

    a. copy */opt/otrs* into the existing volume *otobo_opt_otobo*
    b. mount */opt/otrs* as an additional volume

Both possibilities are viable, but let's concentrate on option **a.** here.

For safe copying, we use ``rsync``. But first we need to find out the correct target.

.. code-block:: bash

    docker_admin> mountpoint_opt_otobo=$(docker volume inspect --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}' otobo_opt_otobo)
    docker_admin> echo $mountpoint_opt_otobo  # just a sanity check

Depending on your Docker setup the ``rsync`` might need to run with ``sudo``.
.. code-block:: bash

    docker_admin> rsync --recursive --safe-links --owner --group --chown 1000:1000 --perms --chmod "a-wx,Fu+r,Du+rx" /opt/otrs/ $mountpoint_opt_otobo/tmp/opt/otrs
    docker_admin> # if docker_admin is not root
    docker_admin> sudo rsync --recursive --safe-links --owner --group --chown 1000:1000 --perms --chmod "a-wx,Fu+r,Du+rx" /opt/otrs/ $mountpoint_opt_otobo/tmp/opt/otrs

This copied directory will be available as */opt/otobo/tmp/otrs* within the container.

Docker: copy the otrs database schema into otobo_db_1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Currently only for MySQL.

Step 4: Perform the Migration!
---------------------------------

TODO: call the new script

Please use the web migration tool at http://localhost/otobo/migration.pl (replace "localhost" with your OTOBO hostname and potentially add the port)
and follow the process.

.. note::

    If OTOBO runs inside a Docker container, keep the default settings *localhost* for the OTRS server
    and */opt/otobo/tmp/opt/otrs* for the OTRS home directory.

.. note::

    The default values for OTRS database user and password are taken from *Kernel/Config.pm* in the OTRS home directory.
    Change the proposed setting if you are working with a database user that is dedicated to the migration.

.. note::

    In the Docker case, a database runnung on the Docker host won't be reachable via ``127.0.0.1`` from within the Docker container.
    This means that the setting ``127.0.0.1`` won't be valid for the input field ``OTRS Server``.
    In that case, enter for ``OTRS Server`` one of the alternative IP-addresses reported by the command ``hostname --all-ip-addresses``.

.. note::

    When migrating to a new application server, or when migration to a Docker-based installation, the database often can't be accessed
    from the target installation. This is usually due to that the otobo database user can only connect from the same host as the database runs on.
    In order to allow access anyways it is recommended to create a dedicated database user for the migration.
    E.g. ``CREATE USER 'otrs_migration'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'otrs_migration';`` and
    ``GRANT SELECT, SHOW VIEW ON otrs.* TO 'otrs_migration'@'%';``.
    After the migration this user can be dropped again: ``DROP USER 'otrs_migration'@'%';``.

When the migration is complete, please take your time and test the entire system. Once you have decided
that the migration was successful and that you want to use OTOBO from now on, start the OTOBO Daemon:

.. code-block:: bash

    root> su - otobo
    otobo>
    otobo> /opt/otobo/bin/Cron.sh start
    otobo> /opt/otobo/bin/otobo.Daemon start

In the Docker case:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker_admin> cd ~/otobo-docker
    docker_admin> docker-compose start daemon

Step 5: After Successful Migration!
------------------------------------

1. Uninstall ``sshpass`` if you do not need it anymore.
2. Drop the databases user dedicated to the migration if you created one.
3. Have fun with OTOBO!


Step 6: Known Migration Problems
-----------------------------------

1. Login after migration not possible
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

During our migration tests, the browser used for the migration sometimes had problems.
After restarting the browser, this problem usually was solved. With Safari it was sometimes necessary to manually delete the old OTRS session.

2. Final page of the migration has strange layout due to missing CSS files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This can happen when the setting ScriptAlias has a non-standard value. The migration simple substitutes otrs for otobo. This might lead to
the effect that the CSS and JavaScript can no longer be retrieved in OTOBO.
When that happens, please check the settings in Kernel/Config.pm and revert them to sane values.

Step 7: Manual Migration Tasks and Changes
------------------------------------------

With OTOBO 10 a new default password policy for agent and customer users is in effect, if local authentication is used. The password policy rules can be changed in the system configuration (``PreferencesGroups###Password`` and ``CustomerPersonalPreference###Password``).

+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| Password Policy Rule                  | Default      |
+=======================================+==============+
| ``PasswordMinSize``                   | 8            |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordMin2Lower2UpperCharacters`` | Yes          |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordNeedDigit``                 | Yes          |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordHistory``                   | 10           |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordTTL``                       | 30 days      |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordWarnBeforeExpiry``          | 5 days       |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
| ``PasswordChangeAfterFirstLogin``     | Yes          |
+---------------------------------------+--------------+
